.Dd June 29, 2020
.Dt HCDL 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm hcdl
.Nd Tool for safely downloading and installing HashiCorp products
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl hVl
.Op Fl Fl help
.Op Fl Fl list-products
.Op Fl Fl version
.Nm
.Op Fl Fl check
.Op Ar product
.Nm
.Op Fl Dkq
.Op Fl Fl no-verify-signature
.Op Fl a Ar arch
.Op Fl b Ar version
.Op Fl d Ar install-dir
.Op Fl o Ar OS
.Op Ar product
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
is a tool for safely downloading and installing HashiCorp products.
To do this, it makes use of the HashiCorp checkpoint API and JSON release
information.
Downloaded products will be verified against the provided SHA256 sums, and
those SHA256 sums will be verified against the HashiCorp GPG key.
.Pp
The HashiCorp GPG key is required in order to perform the signature
verification of the SHA256SUMS file.
This GPG key will either be embedded within
.Nm
or provided as an external resource depending on how the tool was compiled.
If the key is not embedded in the tool,  you will be required to download it
from
.Lk https://www.hashicorp.com/security
and place it in a file named
.Pa hashicorp.asc
under one of the following directories depending on which operating system you
are running
.Nm
on:
.Bl -column Windows
.It macOS Ta Pa ~/Library/Application Support/hcdl
.It Windows Ta Pa %APPDATA%
.It Other Ta Pa $XDG_DATA_HOME
or
.Pa ~/.local/share
.El
.Pp
The following options are available:
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It Fl h , Fl Fl help
Prints help information
.It Fl V , Fl Fl version
Prints version information
.It Fl c , Fl Fl check
Checks for the latest version of the given product and exits without
downloading or installing.
.It Fl D , Fl Fl download-only
Only download the product, but do not install it.
Implies
.Fl Fl keep .
.It Fl k , Fl Fl keep
Keep the downloaded zipfile after install.
.It Fl l , Fl Fl list-products
List HashiCorp products downloadable with
.Nm .
.It Fl Fl no-verify-signature
Disable GPG signature verification of the SHA256 sums file.
.It Fl q , Fl Fl quiet
Silence all non-error output.
.It Fl a , Fl Fl arch Ns = Ns Ar architecture
Specify
.Ar product
architecture to download.
.It Fl b , Fl Fl build Ns = Ns Ar version
Specify
.Ar product
build version to download.
Defaults to
.Ar latest .
.It Fl d , Fl Fl install-dir Ns = Ns Ar directory
Specify a directory to install the
.Ar product
to.
.It Fl o , Fl Fl os Ns = Ns Ar operating-system
Specify
.Ar product
OS family to download.
.El
.Sh ENVIRONMENT
.Nm
supports the following environment variables:
.Bl -tag -width NO_COLOR
.It Ev NO_COLOR
disables all colour output from the program.
.El
.Sh FILES
.Bl -tag -width /usr/local/bin/hcdl -compact
.It Pa /usr/local/bin/hcdl
the
.Nm
binary.
.El
.Sh EXIT STATUS
The
.Nm
utility exits 0 on success and >0 if an error occurs.
.Sh EXAMPLES
Download and install the latest version of
.Dq Terraform :
.Pp
.Dl $ hcdl terraform
.Pp
Download and install a specific
.Ar version
of
.Dq Terraform
and keep the downloaded zip file:
.Pp
.Dl $ hcdl --build=0.12.26 --keep terraform
.Pp
Check what the latest version of
.Dq Consul
is, and when it was released:
.Pp
.Dl $ hcdl --check consul
.Pp
Download and install the latest version of
.Dq Terraform
without checking the GPG signature (not recommended):
.Pp
.Dl $ hcdl --no-verify-signature terraform
.Pp
Download the latest
.Dq Nomad
for a specific
.Ar OS
and
.Ar architecture :
.Pp
.Dl $ hcdl --os=linux --arch=386 nomad
.Sh AUTHORS
.An David O'Rourke .
.Sh BUGS
Please report bugs, issues, and feature requests to
.Lk https://github.com/phyber/hcdl/issues
